# (A)gentic (A)rchitecture (D)ecision (R)ecords 
A collection of general purpose Architecture Decision Records in a simplified form to allow for use in agentic systems.

# Content
## Records
- [AADR-001 - Java interfaces](records/AADR-001.md)
- [AADR-004 - Documenting the application (INCOMPLETE)](records/AADR-004.md)
- [AADR-006 - Logging practises](records/AADR-006.md)
- [AADR-008 - Git Usage, Branching Strategy, and Commit formatting](records/AADR-008.md)
- [AADR-009 - The use of JavaDoc to document Java implementations](records/AADR-009.md)

## Specialisation domains
- [ALL](aggregations/ALL.md)
- [JAVA](aggregations/JAVA.md)

# How this works
* Each decision record sits in its own file
* The naming schema for the filename is `AADR-nnn.md` with nnn being a running number.
* The architectur record is a markdown file
* The structure of the record follows a simple template
* Each record should be as short an concise (and free of repetitions) as possible. Long redundant text wastes tokens and waters down precision. 

# Template for the record file
```
# Title
ADR-nnn - A single line wherein we see what the record is about

# Applies
- JAVA

# Summary
A 3 to 5 paragraph explanation of the record's intent and scope

# Conceptual
A 3 to 5 paragraph explanation of the record's conceptual background

# Instructions and conventions
A markdown bullet list of instructions and conventions that explain in clear words what we expect from the agent to satisfy the record's intent and scope

# Exclusions and antipatterns
A markdown bullet list of clearly stated exclusions, don't-dos and constraints

# Agent instructions
If we want the agent to do /not do something that belongs into the domain of agentic coding,
this is the place to do this.
This section is directed towards an AI agent in a software development environment.
All other parts of the record should be relevant for humans as well as for AI coding agents.
This section is only relevant for AI agents.
```
## Mandatory sections
The following sections are mandatory
- Title
- Summary
- Instructions and conventions

## "Applies" section
A markdown bullet list of 1..n capitalised identifiers for specialisation domains. If a record applies generally, this is represented by the domain identifier **ALL**. Each domain triggers the creation of an aggregation file. (See "Commit actions").
Example: All records that are only applicable if you develop in Java have an entry `- JAVA` in the `# Applies` section. If they are about Java security, they have a second entry `- SECURITY`. As a consequence, two aggregation files are being generated bone JAVA.md, one SECURITY.md, possible duplications and overreaches are accepted as the whole AADR is contained in the aggregation, a coding agents can make nits own decision as to the applicability of a given AADR.

## Title section
The line in the title section is used in automatically generated summaries. (See Commit actions)

# Commit actions
For each commit, a GitHub action is executed. The aggregation files per specialisation domain are generated by concatening the content of all record files relevant for any given domain. The `#Content`section of this file is updated as well.
